# Abstract

This dissertation develops a versatile accessibility assessment method that complements and expands Transport for London's Public Transportation Accessibility Level (PTAL) metric, leveraging open source census and accessibility datasets. Crucially, it integrates a range of disciplines' definitions of access to develop an iterative, assemblage-theory based concept where access varies depending on services accessed and those seeking them. It takes the 15-minute city concept as a theoretical departure point in reconciling this comprehensive definition with an array of quantitative methods. 

The accessibility assessment method developed to complement PTAL comprises two main components. The first entails the construction of a relational composite indicator using census and accessibility data from the Rapid Realistic Routing with R5 (r5r), aggregating features by London's Lower Layer Super Output Area (LSOAs) and subsequently calculating a score. The method's second component employs Delaunay triangulation to create a weighted network wherein weights are determined by the cosine similarity of feature sets linked to each node or LSOA. This second part then mobilises the Walktrap community detection algorithm to identify communities based on their demographics and accessibility levels. This results in organic catchment areas reflective of access in its assemblage form, thus enabling greater understanding of the issues at hand and identification of sites meriting interventions.

Finally, this project implements this method in two case studies, illustrating the method's versatility, that are particularly compelling instances wherein access measurement can serve invaluable purposes. These case studies include (1) older individuals' access to health services, and (2) general access levels for Londoners experiencing deprivation. It finds recurring inner-outer London divides in connectivity across case studies with variations internal to community detection catchment areas. For older adults, a dire landscape of low access demands immediate action. Case study two offers a different narrative wherein high concentrations of deprived individuals reside in areas segregated into several degrees of high and low access. The project ultimately concludes that such expansive methods serve as invaluable tools for assessing, understanding, and ameliorating local access.

Keywords: Accessibility, transport, PTAL, r5r, composite indicator, community detection, 15-minute city, deprivation, age

Data – which are larger than appropriate for GitHub - can be found at this address: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1kNZ90Q8cwMqmiBW4fKqkl9caIWy3dvGi?usp=drive_link
